Hi folks, welcome to one more video of Pompeia Hidroméis channel,
Today I´ll tak about anothe use of natural yeast (Pasta Madre)
That part you need to throw away
instead od just throw it, what if we use it to make Grissini?
Grissini is a bread stick, simple and quick to make, and is delicious
and allows you to create variations
So let´s take a look, that is simple and quick!
This is the ingredients you will gonna need to make your Grissini
7.41 onces of natural yeast (Pasta Madre)
You can use the natural yeast before you feed it
That part you usually discard
3.7 onces of flour
more or less 1 once of water
0.25 onces of salt
2 soup spoons of olive oil
To start making the Grissini, I´ll take the Flour
Put all together with my natural yeast (Pasta Madre)
ok?
Add also the olive oil
Give a quick mix before add salt
To facilitate add some water.
Don´t use all the water at once
Put less in the beginning
Because if you have your natural yeast more wet
You will need less water
So here we start to mix it all
And you will mix this, what is a quick proccess,
until you get a smooth and homogeneous dough
In this kind of dough is very quick
When start to get smooth add the salt and we can go to the next part
After a little more time, I got my dough with salt
I really didn´t need all the water
It´s a dough that really reach the point quickly
So don´t spend to much time on it
What you´ll gonna make now is
to take...
a piece at a time... a small ball
Wow look at this texture... what a elasticity
So with this small amount at a time, I even took too much
So start rolling it until get the format
of a stick
Make it with something around 1 and 1,5 centimeter wide, so it will bake well
That´s it!
That´s the grissini, make a lot of it, spread olive oil in a baking pan and place them in there.
So quickily I made my bread sticks
Now in this moment
You can create a lot of variations,
Example, reduce the salt in the recipe, and add now some fresh grinded sea salt over the dough
You can put rosemary.... cheese....
The tradicional grissini is without nothing of it
But you can play adding a lot of things you like!
You also, besides the stick, create another formats
This dough is very easy to work with
You can make it flat and give it a twist as well, can make a braid format as shown
You can create a lot
Now that we have it ready,
these is one of the few recipes with natural yeast that you don´t need to allow it to grow, to ferment
As you finished it, turn on yout oven, as it is warm already, put it in there
You want your oven at around 392-428ºF, ok?
And you´ll bake it until it gets a nice golden color. Easy doesn´t it? Let´s bake it!
So folks, here we got our baked grissini
Look how nice are ours bread sticks
You can eat it like this, you can dive it in a souce... can pass some butter!
You can make a lot of things!
And now the great test that I always make!
let´s see how it turned out!
Very good!!!
Folks any doubt just write a comment
See you next video... access my blog www.pompeiahidromeis.com
Thank you!